<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
 "dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY PIM "<acronym>PIM</acronym>">
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kontact;">
  <!ENTITY package "kdepim">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE"> 
]>

<book id="kontact-admin" lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title>The &kappname; Administrator's Guide</title>

<authorgroup>

<author>
<firstname>Allen</firstname>
<surname>Winter</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>allen@kdab.net</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

</authorgroup>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<!-- Date and version information of the documentation
Don't forget to include this last date and this last revision number, we
need them for translation coordination !
Please respect the format of the date (YYYY-MM-DD) and of the version
(V.MM.LL), it could be used by automation scripts.
Do NOT change these in the translation. -->

<date>2009-06-08</date>
<releaseinfo>0.00.03</releaseinfo>

<!-- Abstract about this handbook -->

<abstract><para>This is the administrator's manual for &kappname;,
the integrated solution to your personal information management (&PIM;) needs.
&kappname; combines well-known &kde; applications like &kmail;, &korganizer;
and &kaddressbook; into a single interface to provide easy access to mail,
scheduling, address book and other &PIM; functionality.  </para></abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>kdepim</keyword>
<keyword>PIM</keyword>
<keyword>KMail</keyword>
<keyword>KOrganizer</keyword>
<keyword>KAddressBook</keyword>
<keyword>KNotes</keyword>
<keyword>Akregator</keyword>
<keyword>administration</keyword>
<keyword>administer</keyword>
<keyword>email</keyword>
<keyword>calendar</keyword>
<keyword>contact</keyword>
<keyword>administration</keyword>
<keyword>administer</keyword>
<keyword>groupware</keyword>
<keyword>Outlook</keyword>
<keyword>Exchange</keyword>
<keyword>Evolution</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<!-- Chapter Introduction -->
<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>
This is the administrator's manual for &kappname;,
the integrated solution to your personal information management (&PIM;) needs.
This document is intended to aid the groupware administrator with typical tasks
needed to setup &kappname; and make it work smoothly in various environments.
</para>

<para>
&kappname; combines well-known &kde; applications like &kmail;, &korganizer;
and &kaddressbook; into a single interface to provide easy access to mail,
scheduling, address book and other &PIM; functionality.  </para>
</chapter>

<!-- Chapter Compatibility -->
<chapter id="compat">
<title>Compatibility Issues</title>

<para>
This chapter provides help with how to make &kappname;
communicate effectively with various groupware solutions.
</para>

<sect1 id="compat-outlook">
<title>Outlook and Exchange</title>

<para>
In the &kappname; configuration dialog, under <menuchoice><guimenu>Mail</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Misc</guimenuitem></menuchoice> on the <guilabel>Invitations</guilabel> page 
you will find the following options that will help the user communicate
with Microsoft Outlook(tm) running in a Kolab environment or in a
Microsoft Exchange(tm) environment.
</para>


<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Mangle From:/To: headers in replies to invitations</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Enable this option to make Microsoft Outlook(tm) understand your answers to invitation replies.</para>
<para>Microsoft Outlook has a number of shortcomings in its implementation of
the iCalendar standard; this option works around one of them. If you 
have problems with Outlook users not being able to get your replies,
try setting this option.</para>
<para>Details: When mailing an iCal invitation this makes the message have 
the From: header the same as the To: header. It also sets header
 X-KMail-Identity to the To:'s UIOD and makes sure the BCC: is blank.
Outlook will only understand the reply if the From: header is 
the same as the To: header of the invitation message.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Send invitations in the mail body</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Invitations are normally sent as attachments to a mail. This switch
changes the invitation to be sent in the text of the mail instead;
this is necessary to send invitations and replies to Microsoft Outlook.
But, when you do this, you no longer get descriptive text that mail
programs can read; so, to people who have email programs that do not
understand the invitations, the resulting messages look very odd.
People that have email programs that do understand invitations will
still be able to work with this.</para>
<para>Details: When mailing an iCal invitation this option makes the
message body from the attachment data and sets the Content-Type header
to 'text/calendar; method=something; charset="utf-8"'.</para>
<para>Auto-sending is also turned on so there is no human intervention
required for composing.</para>
<note><para>Encryption and self-signing are disabled.</para></note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Exchange-compatible invitation naming</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Microsoft Outlook, when used in combination with a Microsoft Exchange(tm)
server, has a problem understanding standards-compliant groupware email.
Enable this option to send groupware invitations in a way that Microsoft
Exchange(tm) understands. The invitation will be sent as an attachment with name
<filename>ical.ics</filename>.</para>
<para>Details: When mailing an iCal invitation this makes
the message have the subject "(Declined|Tentative|Accepted|Delegated): subject".
The invitation will be sent as an attachment with name <filename>ical.ics</filename>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Outlook compatible invitation reply comments</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>When the user provides comments when responding to invitations, send the
comment in a form that Microsoft Outlook(tm) understands. If this option is not
enabled, the response comments will not be seen in Outlook.</para>
<para>Details: When answering the invitation comments will be sent as a
DESCRIPTION iCal property instead of the COMMENT iCal property
(in violation of RFC2446).</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<!-- Chapter Behavior -->
<chapter id="behavior">
<title>Behavioral Issues</title>

<para>
This chapter provides instructions on how to make &kappname; 
behave more like other groupware clients.
</para>

<sect1 id="behave-composing">
<title>Composing Messages</title>

<para>
Outlook users are accustomed to typing a list of addresses in the To:,
CC: or BCC: fields separated by a semicolon (';') character in addition
to a comma (',').  By default, &kappname; only allows the comma as an address
separator character.  To also allow the semicolon, change the
<option>AllowSemicolonAsAddressSeparator</option> from false to true
in the installed <filename>share/config.kcfg/kmail.kcfg</filename> file. 
</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<!-- Chapter RFC Compromises -->
<chapter id="nonrfc">
<title>RFC Compromises</title>

<para>&kappname; is designed to interoperate as well as is possible
with a wide variety of groupware solutions.  To that end, we sometimes
make design compromises with respect to the various Internet RFCs
that provide the basis for low-level libraries on which &kappname;
relies heavily.</para>

<note><para>We never knowingly violate any RFC.</para></note>

<para>The following list of RFC compromises is made by &kappname; or
the low-levels libraries used by &kappname;:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
When writing duration values into iCalendar files, &kappname; never
writes the DURATION property in terms of weeks (i.e., 1*DIGIT "W"); 
instead, the integer number of weeks is always multiplied by 7 and written
in terms of days (i.e. 1*DIGIT "D").
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</chapter>

<!-- Chapter Common Problems -->
<chapter id="common-problems">
<title>Common Problems</title>
<para>
This chapter deals with common problems the administrator is likely to encounter.
</para>

<sect1 id="freebusy">
<title>FreeBusy</title>

<para>
FreeBusy common problems ...
</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<!-- Chapter Credits+License -->
<chapter id="credits-and-license">
<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>
Documentation Copyright &copy; 2009 Klarälvdalens Datakonsult AB, a KDAB Group company, <email>info@kdab.net</email>
</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
&underFDL;               <!-- FDL: do not remove -->
&underGPL;        	 <!-- GPL License -->
</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<sect1 id="getting-kapp">
<title>How to obtain &kappname;</title>

&install.intro.documentation;

</sect1>

<sect1 id="compilation">
<title>Compilation and Installation</title>

<!-- This entity contains the boilerplate text for standard -->
<!-- compilation instructions.  If your application requires any -->
<!-- special handling, remove it, and replace with your own text. -->

&install.compile.documentation;

</sect1>

</appendix>

&documentation.index;
</book>

<!--
Local Variables:
mode: xml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
End:

vim:tabstop=2:shiftwidth=2:expandtab
kate: space-indent on; indent-width 2; tab-width 2; indent-mode none;
-->
